# Endgame App for Splunk

Author - Endgame, Inc  
Version - 1.1.0
Build - 25
Creates Index - False  
Splunk Enterprise version: 7.0.x, 7.1.x, 7.2.x  
OS: Platform independent  
Prerequisites: (Not mandatory but Endgame API Add-on for Splunk is recommended)

The Endgame App for Splunk allows customers to prevent, detect and take action on endpoint activity directly from Splunk through the Endgame product. Endgame is the leader in unified endpoint protection against targeted attacks, implementing a single host agent for prevention, detection and response, managed by a Security Operations tier, and backed by cloud-driven Global Services. Users can analyze and correlate alerts and use Splunk's capabilities to deliver advanced security reporting, analysis and response. The app provides details for alerts generated by Endgame and enables security analysts and administrators to connect alert data across all security infrastructures. Complicated incident analysis that previously consumed days through manual and error-prone data mining can now be automated, saving manpower and enabling key enterprise security resources to focus on critical, time-sensitive investigations.

## External Data Sources
* We are using Endgame API to collect information of alerts.  

For full functionalities, install Endgame API Add On for Splunk
************************************************************

## INSTALLATION
Install the App bundle by:

1. Download the App package
2. In the UI navigate to: "Apps->Manage Apps"
3. In the top right corner select "Install app from file"
4. Select "Choose File" and select the App package
5. Select "Upload" and follow the prompts.

## CONFIGURATION
1. After the installation you’ll be asked to restart the Splunk. Click on Restart Now.
2. After the restart, you will be asked to configure the app. Click on Continue to app setup page.
3. Enter the details of your Endgame Instance and click on Save.
4. Endgame app is configured and ready to be used.

**Note:** *By default the app is configured to only accept HTTPS API URL and forces SSL validation during API calls. To change this behaviour please checkout [ADVANCED CONFIGURATION](#markdown-header-advanced-configuration) section of the README.*

## UPGRADE
* By default, SSL Verification will be true. If you don't want to verify your SSL certificate, follow steps mentioned in "ADVANCED CONFIGURATION" steps or Add certificate by following steps mentioned in section "Data collection over encrypted network using ssl certificate validation"

## ADVANCED CONFIGURATION
#### How to configure the app with URLs having HTTP scheme and over unencrypted network (*You will need to have access to back-end where Splunk is installed*):
1. Open local directory of the app (i.e `$SPLUNK_HOME$/etc/apps/Endgame/local`).
2. Open appsetup.conf (if its not available ensure that steps provided in the [CONFIGURATION](#markdown-header-configuration) section are performed)
3. In app_config stanza there will be two URL fields with the values that were provided during app configuration page.
4. Change them to any HTTP URL you want and save the conf file. You will also need to add `disable_ssl_validation = True` flag in the conf file.

Conf file may look like as follows after the change:
```
[app_config]
base_url = http://<your_url>
native_base_url = http://<your_url>
disable_ssl_validation = True
```
5. You will need to restart or debug/refresh to make these changes into effect.

#### How to configure the app with URLs having HTTPS scheme and over unencrypted network (*You will need to have access to back-end where Splunk is installed*):
1. Open local directory of the app (i.e `$SPLUNK_HOME$/etc/apps/Endgame/local`).
2. Open appsetup.conf (if its not available ensure that steps provided in the [CONFIGURATION](#markdown-header-configuration) section are performed)
3. In app_config stanza there will be two URL fields with the values that were provided during app configuration page.
4. If `disable_ssl_validation` flag is there (if not then add it under app_config stanza) then providing value from `true` or `1` or `yes` (note: this values are checked case insensitively) will disable SSL validation during API calls.

Conf file may look like as follows after the change:
```
[app_config]
base_url = https://<your_url>
native_base_url = https://<your_url>
disable_ssl_validation = True
```
5. You will need to restart or debug/refresh to make these changes into effect.

#### Data collection over encrypted network using ssl certificate validation (*You will need to have access to back-end where Splunk is installed*):
1. Open bin/certifi directory of the app (i.e `$SPLUNK_HOME$/etc/apps/Endgame/bin/certifi`).
2. Open cacert.pem.
3. Append your certificate in this file.
4. You may need to restart to make these changes into effect.

## TROUBLESHOOTING
1. No Data is Displayed in the Dashboard
    * Ensure that the correct credentials have been provided in the app setup.
    * Ensure that the URL provided has valid SSL certificate (For more information how to disable SSL validation checkout [ADVANCED CONFIGURATION](#markdown-header-advanced-configuration) section of the README)
2. Line Chart not showing up in the dashboard: Ensure that Endgame API Add-On is installed and configured correctly.

## NOTE
The user running and using the app must have "admin_all_objects" capability assigned to it.

## Release Notes

* VERSION 1.1.0
    * Added support to collect data over encrypted network 
    * Resolved Splunk certification issues
    * Added support of dynamic management port of Splunk

## 3rd Party Utilities

Following open source components have been used in the app:

************************************************************
1.	Bootstrap
Version :  v3.3.7 
URL:  http://getbootstrap.com
GitHub: https://github.com/twbs/bootstrap/tree/v3.3.7
************************************************************
2.	D3.js
Version : d3.v3.js
URL : https://d3js.org/
GitHub: https://github.com/d3/d3
************************************************************
3.	Date Range Picker 
Version:  3.0.3
URL:  http://www.daterangepicker.com/
GitHub: https://github.com/dangrossman/daterangepicker
************************************************************
4.	Font Awesome
Version: 4.7.0
URL: https://fontawesome.com/v4.7.0/icons/
************************************************************
5.	Moment
Version: 2.22.2
Download: https://momentjs.com/downloads/moment.min.js
URL:  https://momentjs.com/
GitHub: https://github.com/moment/moment
************************************************************

## KNOWN ISSUES
* Take Action button color issue and minor CSS issue with Splunk v7.0.x.

## SUPPORT
Support Email: support@endgame.com

## EULA
Link: https://d38o4gzaohghws.cloudfront.net/static/misc/eula.html

(c) Endgame 2019