# EC DIGIT CSIRC Add-on for Sysdiagnose Analysis Framework (SAF)

## Overview

EC DIGIT CSIRC Add-on for Sysdiagnose Analysis Framework (SAF) is a Splunk Technical Addon designed to facilitate the collection and processing of the artefacts generated by the [Sysdiagnose Analysis Framework (SAF)](https://github.com/EC-DIGIT-CSIRC/sysdiagnose). This addon provides a set of configurations and scripts to streamline data ingestion and ensure proper handling within the Splunk environment.

Sysdiagnose Analysis Framework (SAF) produces the following type of artefacts:

- Parsed data from a case in JSON or JSONL format. Particularly, this Addon will look into JSONL files only.
- Logs in JSONL format with troubleshooting information from the parsing/analysing process.
- Case information related to a sysdiagnose archive file from the case management.

## Features

This Addon maps all inputs to the index `digit_sysdiagnose` and all events (from all inputs) will obtain the time from the `timestamp` field.

It maps the SAF artefacts to the following splunk fields:

| SAF artefact | SAF folder/file | host | source | sourcetype | input type
|---|---|---|---|---|---
| Parsed data | parsed_data | host_segment | filename | `digit:saf:parseddata:json` | Folder monitoring
| Logs | logs| host_segment | filename | `digit:saf:logs:json` | Folder monitoring
| Devices/Cases information | cases.json | serial_number | path/to/cases.json | `digit:saf:cases:json` | Scripted

[It extracts](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/9.4.2/Knowledge/Createandmaintainsearch-timefieldextractionsthroughconfigurationfiles) the `case_id` from the path for the source types: `digit:saf:parseddata:json` and `digit:saf:logs:json`. So that you can correlate the information with `digit:saf:cases:json` by using the `case_id` field. Be aware that, due to `digit:saf:cases:json` source type comes from a scripted input the `host` field will also contain the hostname of the computer (Forwarder) where the script executed.

The scripted input attempts to be smart so that it keeps track of the already processed `case_id` by keeping a cache as json dict, where the key belongs to the serial number of the device and the value is the list of processed case id for that serial number. Example:

```json
{
    "SERIAL1" : ["SERIAL1_20251125_091003", "SERIAL1_20251123_091003"],
    "SERIAL2" : ["SERIAL2_20251125_091003"]
}
```

If you encounter problems while ingesting cases, you may want to (1) take a look to the dedicated log file `ec_digit_saf_ta_read_cases.log` and backups `ec_digit_saf_ta_read_cases.log.X` (where X = 1, ...) and, (2) (selectively) delete the cache (entries) that you will find in the `local` folder.

## Installation Instructions

1. Create a new index named `digit_sysdiagnose`.
2. Download the SAF Addon package.
3. Extract the contents to your Splunk app directory, typically located at `$SPLUNK_HOME/etc/apps/`.
4. Restart Splunk to load the new addon.

| Instance type | Supported | Required | Description
|---------------|-----------|----------|------------
| Search head   | Yes       | Yes      | This add-on provides search-time field extractions.
| Indexer       | Yes       | Optional       | Not required if you use heavy forwarders to collect data. Required if you use universal forwarders to collect data.
| Heavy forwarder     | Yes       | See comments       | This add-on supports heavy forwarder.
| Universal forwarder | Yes       | Conditional       | This add-on needs the host to have Python installed and wrap the python scripted input in an OS script and declare that new (OS script based) scripted input.

## Usage

The Addon comes with default configuration files. You will have to override the default configuration of [`inputs.conf`](default/inputs.conf) and [`ec_digit_saf_ta_settings.conf`](default/ec_digit_saf_ta_settings.conf).

- Copy those files to the `local` folder.
- Edit `inputs.conf` so that the __monitor stanzas__ point to the proper folder path with SAF cases (default points to `/opt/sysdiagnose/cases`) and the __host\_segment__ field points to the correct segment according to the configured path (default to third segment, basically `cases`).
- Edit `ec_digit_saf_ta_settings.conf` so that the path within the section `cases` points to the path where to find the `cases.json` file. By default, at the root of the SAF cases folder (default value `/opt/sysdiagnose/cases`). __Note:__ You can also tune the `logging` configuration.
- Make sure the environment variable [`$SPLUNK_HOME`](https://dev.splunk.com/enterprise/tutorials/quickstart_old/setsplunkhome/) exists and that points to the Splunk installation directory. Otherwise the scripted input will not work. If you *override* the scripted input in the local folder, the Add-on will still attempt to create the log files `ec_digit_saf_ta_read_cases.log.X` under the folder `/opt/splunk/var/log/splunk`, which if it does not exist and the user under which the Splunk instance does not have write privileges will fail to create.

```bash
splunk cmd printenv | grep SPLUNK
```

You are ready to roll!

## Support

Feel free to report issues, start new discussions, or create pull requests in Github.

A few tips and tricks to double check everything is ingested properly. Start with:

```splunk
index=_internal sourcetype=splunkd digit:saf*
| stats count by log_level, component
```

You will see the warnings and errors, and from which component (DateParserVerbose, LineBreakingProcessor, etc.). That may help you to tune some properties.

It is worth mentioning `LineBreakingProcessor` because there are some data sources (`logarchive` is one of them) that contain very long lines. This SPL will help you to identify truncation problems.

```splunk
index=_internal sourcetype=splunkd digit:saf*   component=LineBreakingProcessor
| rex field=event_message ">=\s*(?<data_length>\d+)"
| stats max(data_length) as data_length_max, min(data_length) as data_length_min, avg(data_length) as data_length_avg by data_source
| sort - data_length_max, data_source

OR
| top data_length_max, data_source
```

### FAQ

#### Splunk complains about latency issues when ingesting data.

__Warning message__

```
Forwarder Ingestion Latency

Root Cause(s):

Indicator 'ingestion_latency_lag_sec' exceeded configured value. The observed value is XYZ. Message from GUID:IP:PORT
```

__Answer__

This is likely a false positive as explained in this [article](https://community.splunk.com/t5/All-Apps-and-Add-ons/How-can-I-view-the-indexing-latency-for-incoming-events-in-real/m-p/47893) :
The theoretical indexing latency can be calculated by subtracting the extracted time stamp (_time) from the time at which the event was indexed (_indextime).

This figure will of course be inaccurate when Splunk indexes historic logs. Negative latencies, if observed, usually indicate a system clock difference between the log writers and the indexer.


## References

- [Sysdiagnose Analysis Framework (SAF)](https://github.com/EC-DIGIT-CSIRC/sysdiagnose)
- [Develop Splunk apps for Splunk Cloud Platform or Splunk Enterprise](https://dev.splunk.com/enterprise/docs/developapps/)
- [Splunk - Source types for add-ons](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/AddOns/released/Overview/Sourcetypes)

# Licence

This project is released under the European Public Licence
<https://commission.europa.eu/content/european-union-public-licence_en>
