# bricata_app_for_splunk

# Overview

## About Bricata App for Splunk

|                          |                                                |
| ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------- |
| Author                   | Bricata                                        |
| App Version              | 1.0.0                                          |
| App Build                | 1                                              |
| Creates an index         | false                                          |
| Implements summarization | Currently, the app does not generate summaries |

Dashboards  on Bricata Metadata and alerts in Splunk.

## Scripts and binaries

  - None

# Release notes

## Version 1.0.0

  - Initial Release

## About this release

Version 1.0.0 of Bricata App for Splunk is compatible with:

|                            |                   |
| -------------------------- | ----------------- |
| Splunk Enterprise versions | 7.3.5, 8.x        |
| Platforms                  | Splunk Enterprise |

## Overview

The Bricata app for Splunk provides dashboards that can be used to discover and hunt through data and alerts created by the Bricata platform.

## Available Dashboards

### Introduction
Provides a starting point for exploring your Bricata events. Most panels will drill-down to other pages in the application.

### Network
Logs created by Bricata from wire data that show network activity.  The panels drill down to more detailed dashboards using the flow_id field to associate events.

### File
Logs created by Bricata that indicate file activity observed on the wire.  The panels drill down to more detailed dashboards.

### Alerts
Alerts generated by Bricata include custom, Suricata and Cylance alerts.  Consolidated Alert Data drills down to 

### Top ten analystics
Some top ten dashboards for alerts and activity.

### Sourcetypes (Advanced)

This app depends on the sourcetypes created by the Bricata add-on for Splunk.  

JSON Data Sourcetypes
bricata:{metadata_type}:raw


Syslog Sourcetypes
bricata:{metadata_type}:syslog


Alert Sourcetypes
bricata:cylance:raw bricata:suricata:raw bricata:alerts:raw

## Prerequisites

### Splunk Versions

This app has been tested with Splunk versions 7.3.5 and 8.0.2.1. This app should be installed along with Bricata add-on for Splunk.


### Data model Acceleration

    - None

## Installation

This app should be installed on a search head. More information on installing or upgrading Splunk apps can be found [here](http://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Admin/Wheretogetmoreapps).

### Simple Installation Process

  - Install the Bricata add-on for Splunk.
  - Make sure the field extractions and tags on your Bricata events are correct.
  - Install the Bricata App for Splunk.
  - Change the macro to the index(es) your Bricata events are in.

### References

    - None

## Known Issues

Version 1.0.0 of Bricata App for Splunk has the following known issues:

  - None

# Support and resources

## Questions and answers

Access questions and answers specific to Bricata App for Splunk at [https://answers.splunk.com](https://answers.splunk.com) . Be sure to tag your question with the App.

## Support

  - Support Email: support@bricata.com
  - Support Offered: Splunk Answers

# Installation and Configuration

## Software requirements

### Splunk Enterprise system requirements

Because this App runs on Splunk Enterprise, all of the [Splunk Enterprise system requirements](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Installation/Systemrequirements) apply.

## Download

Download Bricata App for Splunk at [https://splunkbase.splunk.com](https://splunkbase.splunk.com).

## Installation steps

### Deploy to single server instance

Follow these steps to install the app in a single server instance of Splunk Enterprise:

1.  Deploy as you would any App, and restart Splunk.
2.  Configure.

### Deploy to Splunk Cloud

1.  Have your Splunk Cloud Support handle this installation.

### Deploy to a Distributed Environment

1.  For each Search Head in the environment, deploy a copy of the App.

# User Guide

## Configure Bricata App for Splunk

  - Install the App according to your environment (see steps above)

## Lookups

Bricata App for Splunk contains the following lookup files.

  - None

## Event Generator

Bricata App for Splunk does not include an event generator.

## Acceleration

1.  Summary Indexing: No
2.  Data Model Acceleration: No
3.  Report Acceleration: No

# Third Party Notices

Version 1.0.0 of Bricata App for Splunk incorporates the following Third-party software or third-party services.

  - None

### Related Topics

  - [Documentation overview](index.html#document-index)

2020, Bricata
