## Carbon Black Endpoint Detection and Response Add-on for Splunk

* Add-on Homepage: https://apps.splunk.com/apps/id/TA-carbonblack_edr
* Author: Hurricane Labs
* Version: 1.0.0

## Description
The purpose of this add-on is to provide value to your Carbon Black EDR S3 buckets. This is done by making the logs CIM compliant, adding tagging for Enterprise Security data models, and other knowledge objects to make searching and visualizing this data easy.

This add-on requires the AWS TA for data ingestion (https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/1876/) to pull the S3 bucket. The add-on you are downloading now is only for knowledge objects!

* Supported Data Types:
    * endpoint.event.procstart (cb:edr:endpoint)
        * Process launch event.
    * endpoint.event.procend (cb:edr:endpoint)
        * Process terminate event.
    * endpoint.event.apicall (cb:edr:endpoint)
        * Similiar to crossproc events that are generated by Behavioral EDR.
    * endpoint.event.netconn (cb:edr:endpoint)
        * Network connection event.
    * endpoint.event.filemod (cb:edr:endpoint)
        * File modification event.
    * endpoint.event.regmod (cb:edr:endpoint)
        * Registry modification event.
    * endpoint.event.moduleload (cb:edr:endpoint)
        * A “module load” is generated every time a process loads a shared library (DLL in
Windows, .so in Linux, .dylib in macOS) into its process memory space.
    * endpoint.event.crossproc (cb:edr:endpoint)
        * Any time a process interacts with another process on the system, that is considered a
“cross-process” event.
    * CbAnalytics (cb:edr:analytics)
        * CB Analytic alerts are created from the Endpoint Standard NGAV offering.
    * Watchlist (cb:edr:watchlist)
        * Watchlist alerts are created from alert enabled watchlists in Enterprise EDR

* Built for Splunk Enterprise 6.x.x or higher
* CIM Compliant (CIM 4.0.0 or higher)
* Ready for Enterprise Security

## Constraints
1. This add-on requires that you use the sourcetype "cb:edr:s3" when ingesting the data via the AWS TA.
2. This add-on must be installed alongside the AWS TA (HF, typically) and Search Head(s).
3. The add-on must be installed and Splunk restarted before you setup the inputs.

## SPLUNK INSTALLATION AND CONFIGURATION
    * Search Head: Add-on Always Required (Knowledge Objects)
    * Heavy Forwarder: Add-on Possibly Required (Event Parsing)
    * Indexer: Possibly Add-on Required (Event Parsing)
    * SH & Indexer Clustering: Supported

### CB EDR Add-on Installation Instructions
1. This add-on needs to be installed on your Search Head(s) and on the Splunk Enterprise instance that is running the AWS TA inputs.
2. Once installed, restart Splunk (restart not needed on SH, only HF).

### CB EDR S3 Setup
1. Follow the steps as outlined by Carbon Black here:
    * https://developer.carbonblack.com/guide/enterprise-response/event-forwarder-s3-bucket-configuration/

### Splunk Add-on for Amazon Web Services Setup
* Note: If you perform these steps without first installing the CB EDR Add-on and restarting Splunk, this will not work as expected!
1. If you are installing this add-on fresh, typically you want to put it on a Heavy Forwarder.
    * Download is available here: https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/1876/
2. In the app drop down, click the 'Splunk Add-on for AWS'.
3. Click 'Configuration'
    * Click 'add' and put in your AWS access/secret key.
    * (Optional) click 'IAM Role' and create one, if necessary for your environment.
4. Click 'Inputs' and 'Create New Input' > Custom Data Type > Generic S3
    * (Optional) For increased performance, you should strongly consider setting up SQS-based S3 queue instead rather than Generic S3.
    * Documentation Links:
        * Generic S3: https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/AddOns/released/AWS/S3
        * SQS-Based S3: https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/AddOns/released/AWS/SQS-basedS3
5. Fill out the appropriate AWS details.
6. For sourcetype, you **must** use 'cb:edr:s3'. For index, choose the index where you want to store the data.    

### Verify Your Work
1. Verify data is coming in and you are seeing the proper field extractions by searching the data.
    * Example Search: index=cb sourcetype=cb:edr:* | stats values(vendor_type) by sourcetype
    * Notes:
        * If you see "cb:edr:s3" as a sourcetype, this add-on was not installed properly and will not work until you fix the underlying issue.
        * The "vendor_type" field should include all of the data types that you enabled in Carbon Black.
        * You should see, depending on what you enabled, up to three sourcetypes; cb:edr:watchlist, cb:edr:analytics, and cb:edr:endpoint.
2. (Optional, recommended) On your Search Head(s) edit the "cb_edr_*" Event Types to include the index you're storing these sourcetypes in.


### New features
* 1.0.0: Add-on Released

### Fixed issues

### Known issues

### Third-party software attributions

### DEV SUPPORT
Contact: splunk-app@hurricanelabs.com

### References / Information
* https://developer.carbonblack.com/reference/carbon-black-cloud/platform/latest/eventforwarder-api/
* https://developer.carbonblack.com/reference/carbon-black-cloud/platform/latest/alerts-api/
