Proofpoint TAP SIEM Add-on for Splunk
========================

OVERVIEW
--------

The Proofpoint TAP Modular Input add-on enables a seamless integration between Proofpoint’s Targeted Attack Protection (TAP) service and Splunk. This allows security operations professionals to simplify their workflow by ingesting TAP events for the following scenarios into Splunk: Blocked or permitted clicks to threats recognized by Proofpoint URL Defense, Blocked or delivered messages that contain threats recognized by Proofpoint URL Defense or Proofpoint Attachment Defense.


* Product Name: Proofpoint TAP SIEM Add-on
* Author: Proofpoint Inc
* Version: 1.4.1
* Supported products: Proofpoint Targeted Attack Protection
* API URL: https://tap-api-v2.proofpoint.com/v2/siem/all
* Supported API Version : v2
* Prerequisites : Principal and Secret from https://threatinsight.proofpoint.com

## COMPATIBILITY MATRIX

* Browser: Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Safari
* OS: Platform Independent
* Splunk Enterprise version: 9.1.x and 9.0.x
* Supported Splunk Deployment: Splunk Cluster, Splunk Standalone, and Distributed Deployment

# RELEASE NOTES

### Version 1.4.1
* Added support for Splunk 9.2.x, 9.3.x, 9.4.x
* Updated python sdk 2.1.0

### Version 1.4.0
* Added support for both http and https proxy.
* Added CIM mapping support.

### Version - 1.3.151
* Added support for Splunk 9.0.x

### Version - 1.3.150
* Preventing conversion of NON-ASCII characters to ASCII in data collection.

    (**Note**: This change won't work for existing data.)

* Updated splunklib, dateutil and six libraries to the latest version.
* Masking Secret and Proxy passwords during input configuration by user.
* Logs will be logged to TA specific log file instead of splunkd.log.

# THIRD PARTY COMPONENTS
* Proofpoint TAP SIEM Add-on uses the following external libraries:
    * splunklib version 1.7.4
    * dateutil version 2.8.2
    * six version 1.16.0
    * requests version 2.28.0
    * urllib3 version 1.26.15
    * certifi 2022.12.07
    * idna version 3.4
    * chardet version 3.0.4

# Binary file declaration
* chardetect.exe -  Source code for this can be found at (https://github.com/chardet/chardet)

# RECOMMENDED SYSTEM CONFIGURATION

* Because this Add-on runs on Splunk Enterprise, all of the [Splunk Enterprise system requirements](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/latest/Installation/Systemrequirements) apply.

# TOPOLOGY AND SETTING UP SPLUNK ENVIRONMENT

This Add-On can be set up in two ways:

1. Standalone Mode: Install the Add-on app on a single machine. This single machine would serve as a Search Head + Indexer + Heavy forwarder for this setup.
2. Distributed Environment: Install Add-on on search head and Heavy forwarder.
    * Add-on resides on search head machine need not require any configuration here.
    * Add-on needs to be installed and configured on the Heavy forwarder system.
    * Execute the following command on Heavy forwarder to forward the collected data to the indexer.
      /opt/splunk/bin/splunk add forward-server <indexer_ip_address>:9997
    * On the Indexer machine, enable event listening on port 9997 (recommended by Splunk).
    * If you are using custom index define it on the indexer.
    * Add-on needs to be installed on search head.

# INSTALLATION
Follow the below-listed steps to install an Add-on from the bundle:

* Download the Add-on package.
* From the UI navigate to `Apps-> Manage Apps`.
* In the top right corner select `Install the app from file`.
* Select `Choose File` and select the Add-on package.
* Select `Upload` and follow the prompts.

OR

* Directly from the `Find More Apps` section provided in Splunk Home Dashboard.

## CONFIGURATION
## Configure Inputs
Configure input to collect data from Proofpoint TAP SIEM API. On Splunk instance,

* Go to `Settings` -> `Data Inputs` -> `Proofpoint TAP SIEM Modular Input`
* Click on the `Add New` button
* Enter Name, Principal, Secret Key and other fields required. Click Next
* Field descriptions are as below :

| Field Name            | Field Description                                                            |
| ----------------------| -----------------------------------------------------------------------------|
|  Name\*               | The name of the Splunk input stanza.                                         |
|  Principal\*          | The service principal generated by the Threat Insight Dashboard.             |
|  Secret\*             | The secret generated by the Threat Insight Dashboard.                        |
|  Proxy Protocol       | Protocol of the proxy. Supported - 'http' or 'https'.                        |
|  Proxy Hostname       | Hostname of the proxy that the Splunk server uses to connect to the internet.|
|  Proxy Port           | The port number of the proxy.                                                |
|  Proxy Username       | The username used to connect to the proxy.                                   |
|  Proxy Password       | The password used to authenticate to the proxy.                              |
|  SIEM URL Host\*      | The location of the Proofpoint TAP SIEM service.                             |

**Note**: `*` denotes required fields

Under `More settings`  you can specify an interval in seconds.The recommended(and default) setting is 600 seconds, or 10 minutes. Intervals below 300 seconds are not recommended.

**Note**:- User with Splunk admin role can configure and access the add-on configuration. If user is not able to view the add-on configuration page then please provide the admin role to the user from `Settings` -> `Access controls` -> `Users` -> `Select a User` -> `Provide admin role` -> `Save`.

# UPGRADE

### General upgrade steps:
* Log in to Splunk Web and navigate to `Apps -> Manage Apps`.
* Click `Install app from file`.
* Click `Choose file` and select the Proofpoint TAP SIEM Add-on installation file.
* Check the `Upgrade` checkbox.
* Click on `Upload`.
* Restart Splunk.

### Upgrade from version 1.4.0 to version 1.4.1
Follow the `General upgrade steps` section.
No additional steps are required to upgrade Proofpoint TAP SIEM Add-on from version 1.4.0 to version 1.4.1.

### Upgrade from version 1.3.153 to version 1.4.0
Follow the `General upgrade steps` section.
No additional steps are required to upgrade Proofpoint TAP SIEM Add-on from version 1.3.153 to version 1.4.0.

### Upgrade from version 1.3.150 to version 1.3.151
Follow the `General upgrade steps` section.
No additional steps are required to upgrade Proofpoint TAP SIEM Add-on from version 1.3.150 to version 1.3.151.

### Upgrade from version 1.3.140 to version 1.3.150
Follow the `General upgrade steps` section.
No additional steps are required to upgrade Proofpoint TAP SIEM Add-on from version 1.3.140 to version 1.3.150.

**Note**:- Make sure that upgradation is done sequentially from one version to other.

# KNOWN ISSUES & LIMITATIONS

* In rare cases, Splunk takes longer than expected to encrypt the Secret Key and the Proxy Password, resulting in data collection errors. Observation of this issue has been intermittent and does not occur consistently.

# TROUBLESHOOTING

* Check below log files.
    * `$SPLUNK_HOME/var/log/splunk/splunkd.log`
    * `$SPLUNK_HOME/var/log/splunk/ta_proofpoint_tap.log`
* User can search for ERROR logs in the Splunk using following query.
    * `index="_internal" source=*ta_proofpoint_tap*.log ERROR`
    * `index="_internal" sourcetype=taproofpointtap:log ERROR`
* Make sure that Secret which you have entered while configuring the Account has not expired.

**Note**: $SPLUNK_HOME denotes the path where Splunk is installed. Ex: /opt/splunk

# UNINSTALL & CLEANUP STEPS

* Remove $SPLUNK_HOME/etc/apps/TA-Proofpoint-TAP
* Remove $SPLUNK_HOME/var/log/splunk/**ta_proofpoint_tap.log**
* To reflect the cleanup changes in UI, Restart Splunk Enterprise instance

**Copyright (c) 2025 by Proofpoint, Inc.  All Rights Reserved.**